     Recursion is implemented and discussed as a genre of computer code.A basic familiarity should help gain comprehension the next time the term is subjected to another style of expression. With a couple quotes and diagrams, this article should help even the most unfamiliar novice understand recursion.
     A recursive function must call itself and have a bailout condition:
         "In philosophy class i think we finally decided that ‘good’ is an infinitely recursive term- it can’t be defined except in terms of itself. Good is good because it’s better than bad, though why it’s better to be good than bad depends on how you define good, and on, and on." ~ Orson Scott Card
Without an “else” bailout condition, the recursive expression will carry on indefinitely.  A working recursive function makes a number of declarations, capped with a bailout condition. 
The “else" statement ends the process, otherwise the stacking continues indefinitely, referred to as a ‘stack overflow’.
     According to Wikipedia, ‘the use of recursion in an algorithm has both advantages and disadvantages. The main advantage is usually simplicity. The main disadvantage is often that the algorithm may require large amounts of memory if the depth of the recursion is very large.’ This style of code is most useful when depth is shallow. Too many declarations slows down the computer's processor. Many languages aren’t designed very good for recursive evaluations. However, javascript is, please click on the link below for further explanation with some javascript examples.
http://www.sitepoint.com/recursion-functional-javascript/
